As the data analyst of this project, I presented insights as to how to increase the donation volume of the charity organization. 
This was achieved by exploring and running queries on the database; and visualizing the insights so it can be understandable for the fund raising team.

Two tables made up the database for this project: Donation_data and Donor_data. 
The aforementioned tables were explored, queried and filtered in an SQL (structured query language) environment. When each table got generated, 
it was exported into tableau software for visualization purposes. 

The key parameters that were used in this analysis can be divided into two categories: 
•	Personal characteristics of donors: this category includes the unique personal features of donors that is present in the database, 
  namely: the state of residence of donors, favourite genre of movie of donors, shirt size of donors, second language of donors and favourite colour of donors. 
  Exploring the personal characteristics of donors puts the fundraising team in a position to connect with the donors genuinely and ultimately get them to,
  donate more and possibly bring in new donors. 
•	Donation characteristics of donors: this category includes the features of donation that is received by the organization.
  They are: the job industry of donors and the donation frequency of donors. Exploring the donation characteristics gives the team clarity,
  on the highest contributing factor and indicates areas that have potential of adding to the donation volume. 
  
The most direct way to increase the donation volume is to get the present donors to donate more, hence the choice of the key parameters listed above. 
The following questions guided this analysis: 
•	Which state has the highest number of donation? 
•	Which professionals from what job field donated the most? 
•	Which donation frequency (daily, weekly or monthly) contributed the most to the total donation? 
The general aim of this analysis is to increase the volume of donation, but also specifically to get the highest contributor to donate more,
and the other contributors to also donate more. This analysis will also explore ways to bring in new beneficial donors via insights from the database. 

